Mr. Barber by Scott Burnham. On the 26th of
November at Mr. Barber's house concerning the
Vietnam War, in the interest of accumulating
knowledge about the war, I'm going to donate this
tape to the Texas A&M Oral History Collection in
the University Archives. Is this all right with
you? Yes. First of all, I'd like to get a little
biographical data, such as where and when you were
born and some of your background education. Okay.
I was born in Orange, New Jersey. On October 4th,
1929, my father was an engineer for the New York
Telephone Company. I went to school in public
schools in New York through my junior year in high
school. And after World War II, shortly after
World War II, my parents bought a farm in New
Hampshire. And I went to school my senior year up
there and then went to the University of New
Hampshire. Graduated in 1951 with a degree in
economics. I was also an ROTC graduate. Okay, and
so when did you just come straight out of ROTC and
join the military? Yes, I went straight out of the
university into the Air Force and then into pilot
training in 1951. Okay, and can you briefly
explain your military career before Vietnam?
Okay.
I finished pilot training in 1953 and went
straight to Korea and was there for the last five
months of the war. Then the unit moved to Japan, was
there for about nine months, came back to the
United States and spent about ten years in fighter
units in the United States and Europe. I was a
combat crew for Tactical Air Command, the
Strategic Air Command, and the United States Air
Forces in Europe. After about eight years, I got
into the accident investigation business and I
did that in addition to crew duty for about three
years.
There was a lot of work involved with that. I didn't
particularly like it. Those accident
investigations took about 30 days, and some years
we'd have 12, 13 accidents in the unit. I found very
little time for my family. I decided to go to night
school, which I did. I took a bunch of math courses
and applied for a special program. with the Air
Force Institute of Technology. I went to Texas
Tech for two years under an Air Force program. Got a
degree in industrial engineering. Then when I got
out of school, the Cuban Missile Crisis was still
upon us. I went back into the F4 program and for a
couple of years at MacDill in Florida. Went to
Europe, worked in safety education. for a couple
years, went to Spain, did staff work for 16th Air
Force, the Mediterranean Command there in Spain,
then went to Korea, or excuse me, went to Vietnam
for a year in Edwards Air Force Base for a year and
retired in 1971. Okay. About your involvement in
Vietnam, as a fighter pilot, what sort of
background knowledge did you have of Vietnam as
far as our involvement there? Well, I had spent, of
course, three years in Europe and immediately
before my tour in Vietnam. And what we were exposed
to over there was the Armed Forces Radio Network,
the Stars and Stripes newspaper. Of course, we got
periodicals like Time and so forth. But the
majority of our news and what we got came from the
armed forces press. So I didn't know much about the
country. I was pretty well up to speed on the war
itself because, of course, I was interested in it.
And I worked with people who had been to Vietnam,
who had come back. And I felt like I was aware of the
conflict, the reasons for it. but as far as the
culture and so forth about Vietnam, I hadn't
studied. Okay. Where and when were you stationed
in Vietnam and what types of planes did you fly
there? I was stationed at Da Nang Air Base from
August of 69 to August of 70 and it was all F-4 fire
bomber work during that year. Okay. In bombing,
what were your objectives and targets, as well as
we learned a lot about the restricted zones, about
how for one month this zone you could bomb there and
then you couldn't because of the politics of it.
What are your thoughts on that, and what were some
of your objectives and targets? Well, first of
all, our targets were very specific. We would go to
a briefing. We were given a target folder, and they
said, this is your target for today. This was most
of my involvement. I didn't sit much of the strip
alert business. I had a full-time job in addition
to my flying duties. So, I avoided sitting out
there for like some of them did for six or eight
hours and you might get you might get flushed out
and go someplace and you might not depending on how
the war was going. So, we would go, we would have
specific targets assigned. We would almost
invariably worked with a forward air controller
in a light aircraft who was controlling the strike
and he would he would mark the target or close to it
with a rocket or a phosphorus rocket and so we were
you know I guess there probably were restricted
zones where you could go in and out out of But that
was far above us as far as we were the operators and
that really didn't mean much to us. We went to the
target that they gave us. We had primarily, we were
after storage areas, enemy supply storage areas.
The Ho Chi Minh Trail was, I would say, probably 80%
of our work. suspected troop concentrations,
barracks and so forth. Most of the time you
couldn't see what you were going after because of
the jungle. We'd go after road cuts once in a while,
roads on the sides of hills, mountains. We laid
mines on rivers, roads. We escorted
reconnaissance aircraft into North Vietnam. We
escorted B-52, well we flew air cover for the B-52s
every once in a while. They weren't operating in
North Vietnam very much while I was there. We had
some radar drops where we would be controlled by
radar and we'd go in just like the B-52s did. We
occasionally go after a gun emplacement or some
specific target that somebody would divert us to.
Were these areas mostly north of the DMZ or were
they in South Vietnam? Most of our work was out of
country work. It was in Laos, Cambodia and some in
North Vietnam.
What kind of bombs did you drop? We learned about
the smart bombs and all the new technology they
had. We didn't have many. I think that most of the
smart bombs went to specialized units. As far as I
know, we didn't have any. I don't know anybody that
dropped any. I don't recall seeing any. But we had
conventional bombs. The Mark 82s, I think they
were 750 and 500 pound bombs. most of the time with
regular fuses, sometimes with fuse extenders. We
dropped quite a few CBUs, the cluster bombs, that
would come open at, I think, 1,500, 2,500 feet, and
they would scatter out a circle of bomblets 1,500
feet or so. Some of them were instantaneous. Some
of them were delayed timing.
Did you ever encounter a resistance? You said you
flew with the A-52s and stuff. What type of
resistance did you normally find? Mostly
aircraft, light anti-aircraft fire. We didn't
see any heavy anti-aircraft, the black smoke
ones.
They would, most of the time, they wouldn't bother
you until you were down on a bomb run, and then
they'd shoot at you. there was a lot of ground fire
and you really didn't appreciate it in the daytime
because you didn't see it. You would see the puffs
from the anti-aircraft. At night, on the night
missions, you would see an awful lot of ground fire
in some areas. Amazing amount of fire that was
coming up out of the countryside. Was it a viable
effort? Was it a main concern of yours? Would it be a
possibility of being shut down by these? You're
pretty well aware of the odds. It was always in your
mind, just like having an automobile accident is
in your mind. you knew pretty well what the history
of the outfit was, and you found out right away how
many people had been lost, how many aircraft
they'd lost, and so forth. So we didn't really have
a big loss rate. I probably maybe lost, out of the
three squadrons there, we might have lost one crew
a month. Maybe 2% of the people weren't going to
make it. Another 10% were probably going to have
accidents. Accidents were a lot bigger problem
than the combat losses were. And I felt that there
were some accidents that were probably rated as
combat losses that really weren't.
Okay, back to the bombing aspect. What effect do
you think the bombing had on the enemy as far as the
psychology of the enemy or their will to fight? I
think that it probably had a very significant
effect on them.
I know the North Vietnamese, from what I've read
since I came back, were extremely afraid of the
B-52 attacks. And they were certainly something.
You've probably seen films of that. They would lay
a stream of 500-pound bombs from here to Highway
71. a mile or so of them, just complete
devastation. And, of course, we weren't that
devastating to them, but we carried as many bombs
on an F-4 as a B-17 did during World War II. So we
could, you know, we'd hang around for, we'd be on
the target for 15 minutes probably while we made a
number of runs. And I think that, of course, we were
on the receiving end of some of the aircraft fire
too. They'd rocket the base every once in a while
and that has a psychological effect on everybody.
You know, your chance of getting hit are kind of
like a lightning strike, but just the same, it's
unnerving. Now, what we did to them day after day
and along the trail there, I don't mean just the Air
Force, the Marines and the Navy and everybody else
was over there and it was tremendous effort, and I
think that it probably had a very significant
effect on their morale and their ability to do
things. Okay, as far as the fighter pilots, did you
ever like assist ground troops? Were you ever
called in? No, you know that the in-country work in
South Vietnam, for example, the Marines had at Chu
Lai flew all their missions in country and I
imagine they did a lot of ground support. The only
direct ground support mission that I was involved
in was over in Cambodia. I think it was the first day
that we went into Cambodia.
We had been dropping what was called hard
ordnance, conventional bombs and so forth. And
all of a sudden, we switched to what they called
soft ordnance. They were bombs that were dropped
from low level. They had special fins on them that
came out kind of like an inverted flower petal when
you dropped the bomb. And that would slow them down
and you could drop them further. I don't know,
1,500 feet or something. Most of that stuff we were
dropping from, I don't know, 7,000 or 8,000 feet
probably.
But on that particular mission, there was a group
of houses and some friendlies over in a tree line
that we were told about, and we were told to take out
one of those houses. Were these... The troops that
you were assisting, were they U.S. troops? I
assume so. I assume they were U.S. because that was
mostly a U.S. operation. The Vietnamese were
sneaking across the border into Cambodia and
using it as a sanctuary and then they'd come in, hit
and run, and go back over there and I guess it was
President Nixon who decided that we'd go in there
and clean them out. I don't think they did. I think
they left before we got there. You
said that a large percentage of your job in Vietnam
was more of a staff officer or other duties. Could
you kind of briefly describe some of those duties?
Well, I was the chief of safety for the wing there at
Da Nang. Da Nang Air Base, half the base was, one
side of the base was Air Force, the other side was
Marines. the Chief of Safety for the Air Force
side.
Primarily my job was to advise and assist the
commander there in the accident prevention
business. So we did a number of things. We would
investigate accidents and incidents. We would
respond to all kinds of problems and questions. I
had about eight people working for me. They did a
lot of inspections. We would assist other
inspectors when they came in. Air Force people
were in there regularly, so were the Pacific Air
Force people and 7th Air Force. Everybody and his
dog came over there to see what was going on, and
we'd escort them around. We had a safety council. a
wing-based safety council once a month and that
generated a lot of activity for us. We pretty near
stayed busy doing all the homework we got out of
that meeting
getting ready for the next one.
We've dealt with careerism as a problem in the
services there. Did you observe any examples of
careerism at the expense of the war effort? I don't
think at the expense of the war effort. Sometimes
that's difficult to interpret, but I can remember
individuals that I thought put their
self-interest in front of other people's. I
remember one guy who flew a large number of escort
missions into North Vietnam, escorting the
reconnaissance aircraft. And really, those were
nothing missions. Your job was to go along with the
reconnaissance airplanes. They were low-level
missions. And if anybody shot at them, why, we were
to retaliate against whoever shot at them. Well,
they never got shot at. And at least, you know,
during that time period, they didn't. So, all it
was was kind of a dry run operation.
The hooker to the thing was that missions into
North Vietnam counted twice as much for awards and
decorations as missions in Laos, which really
wasn't right. Laos should have counted four times
as much as North Vietnam, but at that time, because
the shooting was off for the majority of my tour.
There was a time period there when they did go back
in on the north, but I'm talking about most of the
time, and especially on those reconnaissance
missions. But that type of thing was something
that I didn't respect the guy for. I thought it was
crappy of him, but you see that type of thing in any
career. Opportunist is going to jump on it and try
and make the most of it. Also, another aspect of the
war was the one-year tour duties, which seemed to
not really give the officers in particular a
chance. In the first three months, they'd be
getting used to it, and then they'd only have four
months while they were there, and then the last
time they'd be packing up. What did you think of the
one-year tour duties? Did you think it was a good
idea? Well, they had to balance out the other
requirements all over the all over the world with
what was going on in Vietnam and I thought that the
one-year tour was appropriate. If you wanted to
stay, you could. I could have stayed if I wanted to.
And a lot of people did. People came home, they went
back but there were No, you were away from your
family for a year, like I left a wife and five kids
and went over there and stayed for a year. I thought
it was a fair amount of duty time. You worked seven
days a week, and it was an awful grind, really, as
far as the workload went. So I really didn't have
any argument with the one-year tour. Okay. There
was another concept of the idea of getting your
ticket punched, as they used to say. We talked to
this one guy that was in the Air Force Academy, and
everybody that was there was saying, well, get
over to Vietnam now, go get your ticket punched,
because it's the only way you'll ever become a
general or you'll ever rise up in the ranks. Did you
ever see any people just coming over to maybe
getting a soft job just to put Vietnam on the
resume? No, I don't think so, because... You never
could tell what kind of job you were going to get
when you got there. You might be shipped over as one
thing and wind up as something completely
different. So there was no doubt about it that if
you wanted to advance in the military, anybody in
the military, you better get that kind of duty
behind you. And it was important to everybody's
career, but you know, if you're being in the
military, that's what you're there for. It's kind
of like being a fireman. You don't go to the fires,
there's no sense in being in the fire department.
So, you know, I realize that some people felt, may
have felt that way, but I didn't. I certainly, I was
anxious to go because it was something that was
part of your job and I was very surprised when I got
sent from Florida to Europe for three years
because the war was on when I was in Florida. We were
sending units out of MacDill to Southeast Asia for
90 days or something like that in rotating duty and
the word was that nobody was going to go any place
but Southeast Asia. When I got my orders to Europe I
was very surprised and disappointed because I
figured what would happen would be I would spend
three years in Europe and then go to Southeast
Asia, which is exactly what happened. It was kind
of an ass-backwards way to do things. Okay. In
dealing with Arvin at the South Vietnamese
troops, did you have to deal with Arvin fighter
pilots or was it strictly U.S.? Well, we had the
Vietnamese on the base with us and we were kind of
co-mingled with them. they would have an
operations building right next to ours. At least
they did at one time and on the flight line they had
their helicopter area and their bombs stashed all
over the place. We were always kind of leery of them
because it was kind of, it appeared to be kind of
loosey goosey but they, we really didn't have much
to do with the Vietnamese. There was one
Vietnamese captain who we saw quite a bit of. He was
their flight safety officer. And he would come
down and talk to us about various problems every
once in a while, or he'd want something. He was a
pretty good guy. He'd been through the flight
safety officer's course at the University of
Southern California. The main obstacle with the
Vietnamese was language. Their language is
impossible. And one of the smartest people I ever
knew couldn't master it. I didn't even try, and I
don't know anybody that smoked even a you know,
more than a few words of Vietnamese. And we were not
allowed to socialize with the Vietnamese
officers. So, we never went to their houses, they
never came to our parties, we didn't go to theirs.
It was completely, you know, separate but equal
type operation. What do you think about that? Do
you think it would have been a better idea to try and
maybe be a little bit more involved? I guess, but
you know, I think there were too many obstacles to
it. One thing, you never know. There was so much
enemy activity around, so many people that, you
know, the guy would be the gardener during the day
and at night he'd be out firing the rockets into the
base. And the same with the house girl and all that.
You never knew who to trust because of the
guerrilla type operations that they did. And I
don't understand why You know, the ban was on the
fraternization business. I suspect partly was
because of the terrorist activities. Maybe
they'd had some real bad experiences with that. It
may have been over the women, I don't know what it
was all about, but It just, they didn't seem
particularly anxious to do it either. They kind of
left us alone, and we left them alone. That's my
experience on one air base. It may have been
different. I know people that lived with the
Vietnamese. There's a guy in our office who was in
Special Forces. He was out in the communities, you
know, in the Jones. As far as the missions, where
they originated from, Was there any South
Vietnamese input? Did they say, well, we think you
had a bomb here? I think that there was at a very high
level. I think the Vietnamese had to say something
about what we went after in country. But of course,
that wasn't our concern. We were out of country
work most of it. So I don't think they had much to say
about that. They may have. They could care less
what we did over there. What we were trying to do was
shut off the supply that's coming down the Ho Chi
Minh Trail. And they should have been thrilled
that we were doing that. Do you ever think that
there was a sense of ingratitude amongst the South
Vietnamese? No, I don't think so. The South
Vietnamese, to me, just didn't appear very
motivated about the whole damn thing. They seemed
to me, I suspected
they were politicians. I thought that they were
probably
on the order of Ferdinand Marcos in the
Philippines.
Probably on the take, probably half crooked. We
probably put them in there, the ones that were
there when I was there. and that just didn't seem to
be too fired up about the war, but then again, I
didn't, that's just a casual observance, because
I didn't really have any real contact with the
South Vietnamese officers, except this one guy.
Okay, starting with the war in general, kind of on a
big scale, did you feel the war was winnable at the
time you were there, or do you, How would you
describe a winnable situation given that
country? Well, I think the United States could
have won the war if we had wanted to, if we had been
turned loose. I think with enough conventional
forces, we could have taken over South Vietnam.
Now, I'm not so sure we could have kept it, but we
could have won it. It would have been a real tough go
because the Vietnamese the VC and the North
Vietnamese probably would have been right back in
there. They were very innovative and clever and
good guerrilla fighters and I think that they
would have pulled a, they would have gotten back,
we might have thrown them out, but I think they'd
have come back in. They, we could have won it with,
we could have won it by going into North Vietnam and
that probably would have been with nuclear
weapons and that would have certainly could have
been done, but I think it would have opened up a
scenario for a much bigger war and we'd have had
other countries involved. Russia or China? The
country wasn't prepared for that. The United
States never would have supported that. The
politicians knew it, and that's why we fought the
limited war that we did. So you mentioned that we
were held back. Who was holding us back? Was it
Congress or was it the President? Well, I think
basically it was the American people, and they
were sending messages to the Congress, and the
Congress was listening. And the press, of course,
was against the war and probably will be against
every war that we ever fight. That's just the
nature of our liberal press, but there was no real
support for the war like there was. I was a teenager
in World War II and I remember the support that
everybody gave to the war effort. There wasn't 10%
of that in the Vietnam War. People just wanted it
over with. They didn't want to see Americans over
there dying and they didn't want to see their money
spent on it and it was, you know, a losing cause
almost from the beginning because there was no
support. Who do you think you can blame for not
having support? I mean, obviously, you know,
during the World War II era, you know, the
government had a lot to do with drumming up
support. Do you think it was a fact that just the
government was trying to fight this war and you
know, just say, well, it's over there, don't worry
about it? We didn't see the threat. The American
people didn't see a threat from that. You know, it
was the falling domino theory that, you know,
Thailand would go, Cambodia would go, Vietnam or
in the opposite order, and pretty soon, you know,
we'd have them on our doorstep. Well, and that was,
that part of the world was necessary to our
national interests, we were led to believe. And I
think to a certain extent that's true.
The American people didn't perceive that as a real
threat. Now they saw Hitler as a real threat. And
they saw the Japanese as a real threat. Actually,
the United States just sat around and was a good
neighbor to Great Britain until the Japanese
bomb. Pearl Harbor, and as the Japanese general
said, we've awakened the sleeping giant. Well,
nobody awakened us in Vietnam. We just, you know,
we kind of muddled our way through, and there was no
big cause to get us moving as a country. Also,
some of the problems we've heard more later on in
the war, in the 70s, late 70s, was the problem with
drugs. I think it was more with the marine grunts
and the actual fighting people, but did you ever
encounter any problems with drugs? No, really I
was kind of naive as far as the drug problem went.
The Air Force, you know, it's a little different
deal because We had people in a very controlled
environment on an air base. You had all
volunteers. By and large, you have people who are
probably better educated. They're high school
graduates, or at least. And they're working with
pretty sophisticated equipment. There wasn't as
big an awareness of the drug problem at that time.
It was 20 years ago. I did see it one time. We got
called out in the middle of the night and some guy
had gotten hit by an airplane out on the runway. It
was a Marine. They were of course on the other side.
We had the Air Vietnam terminal on our side of the
base and had a fried chicken place in it. And these
guys had crossed the field, crossed the airfield,
rather than go around the end of the runway, which
probably would have been a five mile hike either
way. They came directly across, which was maybe a
mile, mile and a half. We're crossing the runway
and an airplane landed and it hit one of them. The
wing hit this guy in the head and killed him dead.
And I went down to the, the Air Police had his buddy
and they had him held down in their security office
and they were waiting for the Marines to come pick
him up and I went and talked to him and it was obvious
he was just as stoned as you could possibly be. He
was completely out of it. I mean, fixed air and
just, you know, would hardly communicate and
everything and they were blasted out of their
minds on something and so, you know, that kind of
woke me up a little bit to the drug problem, but I
didn't see any evidence and I was in a position
where I would have known had we, had they had a
problem with drugs on the base. I worked closely
with the people who were in charge of the whole
thing and they just, you know, there wasn't any. If
it was there, we sure as hell didn't know about it.
So on the base, I mean it was more like, did you ever
stray from the base or was it just pretty much like
you had your own community there? We had our own
community. I got off the base I can only think of one
time. I think we went out to some communications
facility that was a few miles off the base. We had to
go through town and we stopped by and saw that China
Beach operation. You've probably seen it on TV.
The beach where the Marines came ashore. But going
into town was not encouraged. In fact, I can't
remember being restricted to base, but we
probably were. There was no real need to go to town.
We
had what we needed on base and that really wasn't an
attractive place to be.
Concerning, we also dealt with the inter-service
rivalries. which I guess goes on since the
creation of all three services, but to what extent
did you see that in Vietnam in the effort there?
Well, I didn't see any inter-service rivalry. Of
course, we had nothing to do with the Army at all.
The Army was off there in the jungle someplace and
we just didn't have anything to do with it. There
weren't any Army people on the base. If there were,
there were one or two. The Marines, of course, were
very much in evidence. As far as the work that had to
be done, we didn't have any problems with the
Marines. We had a job to do. Really, it was not much
of a joint effort as far as the Marines. The
runaways were kind of a joint operation and some of
the problems on the airfield. For the most part,
the Air Force was the host base though. Host
service on the base. The Marines, really I lost a
lot of respect for the Marines there. I thought
they were a well-disciplined outfit and I found
out that they couldn't even get their enlisted men
to salute over there. It was that bad. I had a Marine
officer in there. We were in their club one night
having some drinks and one of these Marine
lieutenant colonels took it upon himself to get
hacked off about something, some little thing,
and he stood up and gave me the bird in the middle of
this club, which I went over and talked to him and
promptly left with the people that I had come in
with. We got out of there, but it was a nasty scene.
He called me up the next day and apologized, but I
think somebody told him to do it, but I just, you
know, I was kind of surprised at their behavior.
But as far as rivalry, you're right, that goes on.
It's kind of like neighbors, competitiveness in
the office and at school and every other place.
Each one is trying to get their piece of the pie, but
it wasn't a problem over there as far as the war
went, I thought.
A lot of talk about some of the secret campaigns
like Nixon's wars and a lot of the CIA stuff that
went on. One in particular was the Air America.
Were you aware of that? I knew about Air America and
I think it's generally recognized that Air
America is the CIA's Air Force. I thought that they
were kind of glorified freight haulers really.
They hauled all kinds of stuff all over the place
and they made a lot of money and they were
mercenaries as far as I was concerned and I
respected them for what they did but I thought they
were kind of overrated. They got a lot of press that
I knew people that flew for them. When I was there
they were, they'd drift in and out. But they were
for the most part, they weren't really in the heavy
duty stuff. I'm sure they got shot at a lot because
they flew, what they flew and where they flew. But
as far as the secret wars, I think that we did what
was right for the times. President Nixon had had
his hands full with that war and
he wasn't the one that really got us into the thing
big time. But there were, he had to fight the press
and everybody else and try and get done what needed
to be done. I don't think that there were any
secrets from the people in Congress or the Senate.
I don't think there are any secrets in Washington
about military affairs. Those guys get briefed
and they let their buddies know and they let
whoever know they think is going to do their
bidding for them.
They try to keep a lot of things quiet. There again,
it was a different time. I think it was in the best
interest of the country at the time. People's
lives were at stake and they were trying to achieve
certain objectives and the secrecy was part of it.
That probably hurt some congressional feelings,
but that was part of the game. Were you aware of any
of the CIA bases in Cambodia or Laos? I wasn't aware
of any. I'm sure they have, but it wasn't hard. They
probably wouldn't tell us about it. We had no need
to know.
You mentioned earlier that you respected the
enemy troops. Yeah. What were your thoughts about
the war? I had a lot of respect for the North
Vietnamese regulars. I thought they were very
well disciplined. They could get along on
nothing. They put up with a lot of hardships and
really they fought a good war against the French
and against us. And some of the things they did, you
know, the United States figured that the war was
pretty near won in 1968. and we were being told
that. The American public was being told that and
then all of a sudden the Tet Offensive came about
and it was pretty clear that we didn't have control
of that place at all. That the North Vietnamese and
the Viet Cong
could do a hell of a lot of damage if they wanted to
and they did. And really that was the turning point
of the whole thing. a lot of politicians that had
supported the war, all of a sudden decided, hey,
you know, we're not going any place in this thing.
We better get out.
The VC, I didn't have as much respect for.
Certainly they were clever and they were good
fighters, but really they were kind of rabble
gorillas as far as I was concerned.
But you gotta give them credit. Between them and
the North Vietnamese, they won the thing. Okay,
concerning anti-war efforts and stuff, how did
you feel specifically about the anti-war
demonstrators and their efforts?
Well, I suspected the motives of a lot of the war
demonstrators. I thought a lot of that stuff that
originated on the campuses was probably
self-serving for a lot of people on the campuses
that didn't want to go over there, didn't want to
fight. So, they're out protesting and raising
hell and running down the war effort and
everything for probably largely personal
reasons. A lot of them took off and went to Canada
and that appalled me. I thought they should have
been shot for that. But one of our presidents, I
forgot who it was, decided that they should all be
pardoned and let the bastards back in. But it makes
me wonder what's going to happen in any future war.
Does everybody decide then whether they want to go
fight it or not? I seriously wonder if we can fight
any war without some real changes in attitudes.
But I think that the protesters had a real
significant effect on the war effort. Of course
the press was against the war anyway. Then the
protests came along and they kind of played up to
the press. The press gave them a lot of coverage and
I think it helps sway a lot of people who were on the
fence or who may have even been for the effort back
the other way. We had people like Jane Fonda who
went up to North Vietnam and consorted with the
enemy while people were dying a few hundred miles
away for what was supposed to be our national
interest.
I respect their right to demonstrate. I think, you
know, that's part of our country. Certainly, the
violent demonstrations, the
draft dodgers and all the rest of it, I thought was
too far. Certainly, it was too far and it was
tolerated because the war wasn't popular and they
got away with things that I think set a bad
precedent. I'm not so sure that they could get away
with it in any kind of a war that was anywhere near
supported by the American people, but they did
because nobody cared. What about the veterans
that would come back and join like the Vietnam
veterans against the war and the veterans for
peace? What did you, what did you feel about it?
Well, I feel sorry for those people. I think
they're kind of pathetic. I think a lot of them were
probably misfits in the service and they came back
home and they couldn't fit in in civilian life. and
they go off and became professional complainers
and whiners and so forth. Instead of putting that
behind them, getting on with their lives and what
had to be done, supporting their families and so
forth, why, you still see them running around in
all that hippie military stuff that they wear. And
I think they give the whole Vietnam era and the
veterans a bad
public image and I wish that they would go get some
jobs and forget about it. You know, it's behind us,
something in history. Did you see any, as far as
like in the service in Vietnam, any anti-war
feelings or anti-war demonstrations or I mean,
even within the service, was there a bad feeling
about it? No, you know, as far as my remembrance
was, you know, of course there were people who
weren't too thrilled about going over to Vietnam,
but that was personal reasons and but as far as
anti-war feelings and so forth, I couldn't detect
any at all. Most of the people in the Air Force in
particular You know, it was just another job. We
had a whole string of jobs to do over the years, and
that was another.